#summary Site and user configuration of boto.

= Introduction =

There is a growing list of configuration options for the boto library.  Many of these options can be passed into the constructors for top-level objects such as connections.  Some options, such as credentials, can also be read from environment variables (e.g. {{{AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}}} and {{{AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}}}).  But there is no central place to manage these options.  So, the development version of boto has now introduced the notion of boto config files.


= Details =

A boto config file is simply a .ini format configuration file that specifies values for options that control the behavior of the boto library.  Upon startup, the boto library looks for configuration files in the following locations and in the following order:

  1. /etc/boto.cfg - for site-wide settings that all users on this machine will use
  1. ~/.boto - for user-specific settings

The options are merged into a single, in-memory configuration that is available as {{{boto.config}}}.  The {{{boto.pyami.config}}} class is a subclass of the standard Python [http://docs.python.org/lib/module-ConfigParser.html SafeConfigParser] object and inherits all of the methods of that object.  In addition, the {{{boto.pyami.config}}} class defines additional methods that are described on the PyamiConfigMethods page.

= Sections =

The following sections and options are currently recognized within the boto config file.

== Credentials ==

The {{{Credentials}}} section is used to specify the AWS credentials used for all boto requests.  This section defines the following options:

*aws_access_key_id*

    Your AWS access key

*aws_secret_access_key*

    Your AWS secret access key

=== Example ===

{{{
[Credentials]
aws_access_key_id = <your access key>
aws_secret_access_key = <your secret key>
}}}

== Boto ==

The {{{Boto}}} section is used to specify options that control the operaton of boto itself.  This section defines the following options:

*debug*

    Controls the level of debug messages that will be printed by the boto library.
    The following values are defined:
{{{
        0 - no debug messages are printed
        1 - basic debug messages from boto are printed
        2 - all boto debugging messages plus request/response messages from httplib
}}}