#summary Who's using boto and what are they doing with it?
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

There are quite a few people using boto.  We average 50+ downloads a week and there are well over 200 people on the discussion list.  I'd love to know what the heck all of you people are doing with it.  If you are able to share some info, please add it to the list below.


= Cool Stuff =

=== *[http://twitter.com/ivan_d ivan_d]*===
I used #boto to store Twitter social graph on simple db. I had written a simple python crawler. Thanks for #boto!

=== *Nate Aune* ===
I just gave a talk at PyCon about using Boto as a component for PondCMS, a hosted and supported Plone service on EC2. You can download the slides here to learn more about the project: http://us.pycon.org/media/2009/talkdata/PyCon2009/066/PyCon_2009_-_Plone_in_the_Cloud.pdf

=== *Eric Evans* ===
I use boto with duplicity[1] for backups. I follow that list as well, and anecdotally there seems to be a lot of other people who do as well.

=== *Nikolaus Rath* ===
I'm using it for backups:
 * Start an EC2 instance
 * Mount an EBS volume
 * rsync local disk to EBS
 * Shutdown the instance again
Not particularly sophisticated I guess, but it works very well :-). 


=== *Elias Torres of Lookery* === 
I'm using boto for doing uploading large amounts of files to S3 from Apache Hadoop. 

=== *mARK bLOORE* ===
i do batch processing on EC2.  i use boto to fire up 20 or 30
instances, check that they started properly, transfer some files to
them, and start a script.  (actually, i use ssh to start the script.)
when done they use boto to save their results to S3.  the
batch-controller script waits til those instances have gotten fairly
started, and then fires up more...  i don't do them all at once
because S3 can't keep up with loading data to them.

i also use boto a lot indirectly, through s3funnel
(http://s3funnel.googlecode.com/), which makes using S3 on the command
line easy.

i haven't used boto for other AWS stuff, except to find that SDB can't
provide the data rate i needed.

=== *dp* ===
At my previous employer, I used boto for automated daily database
backups to S3 and for a dynamic EC2 deployment system that allowed us
on-demand scalability.

Hooray for boto!
 